- [Female Speaker] Now let us understand
the advent of JSP Standard Actions.
So far, we have known the basic elements on a JSP:
scriptlet, expression, and declaration.
Scriptlets allow you to write Java code statements.
Expression allows you to evaluate expressions
and print then on your JSP whereas declaration allows you
to introduce new instances, variables, and methods
in the translated servlet for your JSP.
When we talk about a JSP,
it is used only for navigating and displaying object data.
In a typical MVC architecture,
JSP is always the view layer of your application,
which is basically the presentation,
other than presentation,
it should be really doing anything more.
It should not be involved in any kind of business logic
nor should it be involved in any kind
of database interaction because it is merely there
for the presentation purposes.
Let's take a look at some of the code pieces
that we have written with the basic elements.
Look at the searchResults.jsp,
we have this set of lines that we've written out.
Basically the motive here was to display the product data.
We had to open up a scriptlet in order to get the products
from the request code then we had to start an Iterator
and then we started running a While loop,
but then for every product since we had
to generate a form element,
we actually had to close the scriptlet right here,
because form is in HTML code.
After we do all that, we are to open a scriptlet again
so that we correctly close this While loop as well.
Now this is just the code for small portion of your page.
But let's say your JSP is huge and contains a lot
of dynamically generated content.
In that case, really looking at this code
and reading it out is difficult.
The read ability's highly reduced
because it's trying to make your code a little messy.
Let's take a look at another page. The login.jsp.
The purpose of lines number 44-50
was only to go ahead and fetch that error attribute
from the request code and display it for the user.
But if you take a look at this code, in the first shot,
it really looks less readable, messy, and it's definitely
going to be non-maintainable in the future.
If you have this kind of code written all over your JSP page
it's really going to become difficult to maintain it.
So, all the JSP elements that we've seen so far,
make your code messy, non-maintainable,
and it's really difficult to even read that code.
So now, we need to adopt an approach so that we stop
writing these kind of lengthy code statements
on our JSP pages.
Take a look at this page again.
When you look at a HTML set of tags,
don't you think that it is definitely a more readable code?
It's really nice to read that code.
You understand it quite quickly
rather than reading the JSP elements code.
So, we basically now need to go towards an approach
where instead of writing of lot of Java code statements,
we start writing tags.
However, when it comes to JSP code,
it is basically Java code and that needs
to get executed through the server side.
Which means, that whenever we write a tag
and when your JSP executes,
behind the scenes there must be some Java code
that should run so that it does the job
that you want to do on your presentation
and that's exactly where you have
JSP Standard Actions coming in.
They are some actions that you take on your JSP
and they will be in the form of tags that you write
which will get your job done.
So, JSP Standard Actions are, of course,
tags which take action during the JSP execution.
They can do a lot of stuff for you.
Like for example, you want to fetch the value
of a Java property out of a Java object
which has probably been set in some pre-defined scope
like request, session, application, etc.,
so a Standard Action of JSP will help you navigate through
the Java object and display the output on the JSP page.
Then we are also taking a look at the
request dispatcher API which allowed us
to forward a control to another servlet or another JSP.
We also saw the option of request dispatcher
helping us to include,
that's combining the response of both the resources.
So, whatever you could do there inside
in the servlet using request dispatcher
you can do the same thing on on a JSP as well.
Using JSP Standard Actions, you can actually forward
or include a resource in the current context.
The syntax of a JSP Standard Action looks like that.
You have an angle bracket and then there a word
called jsp followed by colon and then
the actual name of the tag.
This word, jsp, is basically called prefix,
which is used to identify that you're picking up a tag
from this namespace.
All the information that you want to specify in this tag
is always in the form of attributes.
So, you're no more going to write lengthy code statements.
Instead, just define attribute so that
when the stack executes on your JSP,
it's going to run some Java code behind the scenes
and do the job that you have already been doing before
with scriptlets or expressions.
Those are the commonly used JSP Standard Actions.
There is something called a jsp:useBean
so it's using a bean, as the name suggests,
and it'll help you to instantiate a bean on the JSP page
or it will also help you to fetch a bean,
a java object I mean, on the JSP,
which has already been set in a predefined scope.
The forward and include tags as you see next
are basically used to forward the control
to another resource or include another resource
and the currently resource respectively.
So, it's basically doing the the same job
as a request dispatcher or forward.
Request dispatcher don't include API calls in your servlet.
Jsp:getPropery on the other hand will help you to evaluate
the value of a JSP property from an object
and display it for you on your JSP.
setProperty on the other hand is going help you
provide a value to particular Java property
of an object directly on the JSP.
So, we'll take a look at a demo including these few
Standard Actions in our next video.